# Proxmox (LXC)

Proxmox VE is an open-source server management platform for your enterprise virtualization. It tightly integrates KVM hypervisor and LXC, software-defined storage, and networking functionality on a single platform. With the integrated web-based user interface you can easily manage VMs and containers, highly available clusters, or the integrated disaster recovery tools with ease.

## What is LXC ?
Containers are a lightweight alternative to fully virtualized machines (VMs). They use the kernel of the host system that they run on, instead of emulating a full operating system (OS). This means that containers can access resources on the host system directly.  
The runtime costs for containers is low, usually negligible. However, there are some drawbacks that need be considered:

* Only Linux distributions can be run in Proxmox Containers. It is not possible to run other operating systems like, for example, FreeBSD or Microsoft Windows inside a container.  
* For security reasons, access to host resources needs to be restricted. Therefore, containers run in their own separate namespaces. Additionally some syscalls (user space requests to the Linux kernel) are not allowed within containers.

## Basic setup

<**ToDo**>

## Mount USB-Devices
To ensure USB-DEvinces (like zigbee stick) can be used within the LXC, we need to:   
1) Ensure the device is always mounted into the sae directory  
2) Ensure the mount directly is writable  
3) Forward the ports to the LXC container  

To accomplish 1 & 2 we will use udev-rules to assign un-mutable TTY names to USB devices by creating symbolic links of physical devices.  
As last step we modify the container configuration to accomplish mount the host symbolic link into the container.


### Creating symbolic links of physical devices
1) Identify the vendor and product id, assuming the device is currently mounted to ```/dev/ttyACM0``` use the following commmmand  
```
udevadm info -a -p $(udevadm info -q path -n /dev/ttyACM0) | grep "ATTRS{idVendor}"  && udevadm info -a -p $(udevadm info -q path -n /dev/ttyACM0) | grep "ATTRS{idProduct}"
```  
*Replace ```/dev/ttyACM0``` wih the proper mount point if needed  

2) You should see something like this, we always need the values at the top!  
```
ATTRS{idVendor}=="0451"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="1d6b"
ATTRS{idProduct}=="16c8"
ATTRS{idProduct}=="0002"
```

3) create new udev-rule ```nano /etc/udev/rules.d/49-custom.rules``` and enter the following lines
```
KERNEL=="ttyACM[0-9]*", SUBSYSTEM=="tty", ATTRS{idVendor}=="0451", ATTRS{idProduct}=="16c8", SYMLINK="ttyZigbee"
```
Replace the following items with the previous retrieved values and choose a SYMLINK
- idVendor ```Retrieved in step 2```
- idProduct ```Retrieved in step 2```
- SYMLINK  ```The wanted mounting point, usually ttyACM0```

### Ensure correct ACL on mounted drive
1) Open the previous created udev-rule
   ```nano /etc/udev/rules.d/49-custom.rules```
2) Add the following line to ensure the ACL is set to 0666
    ```
    SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="0451", ATTRS{idProduct}=="16c8", GROUP="users", MODE="0666"
   ```
Ensure **idVendor** and **idProduct** is provided correctly (See previous step), reboot your machine or reload ```udev``` rules:  
    ```
    udevadm control --reload
    ```

### Mount device into LXC 
3) Mount the new created symlink into your lxc dev container
    1) Get the ACL group ID of created symlink ```ls -l /dev/ttyZigbee```
       in my case the ID is **7**, see the number between user and date  
       ```lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 7 Mar 10 13:40 /dev/ttyZigbee -> ttyACM0```
    2) Open the LXC configuration file
    3) add the following lines, replace **7** with the number in step 1 and ensure proper symlink directory
    ```
    lxc.cgroup.devices.allow: c 7:* rwm
    lxc.mount.entry: /dev/ttyZigbee dev/ttyZigbee none bind,optional,create=file
    ```